James Cameron's big-budget (and even bigger-grossing) films create unreal worlds all their own. In this talk, he reveals his childhood fascination with the fantastic  from reading science fiction to deep-sea diving and how it ultimately drove the success of his blockbuster hits Aliens,The Terminator,Titanic and Avatar.James Cameron is the director of Avatar, Titanic, Terminator, The Abyss and many other blockbusters. While his outsize films push the bounds of technology, they're always anchored in human stories with heart and soul.
Film producer Jeff Skoll (An Inconvenient Truth) talks about his film company, Participant Productions, and the people who've inspired him to do good.Jeff Skoll was the first president of eBay; he used his dot-com fortune to found the film house Participant Productions, making movies to inspire social change, including Syriana; Good Night, and Good Luck; Murderball; An Inconvenient Trut
Movies have the power to create a shared narrative experience and to shape memories and worldviews. British film director Beeban Kidron invokes iconic film scenes -- from Miracle in Milan to Boyz n the Hood -- as she shows how her group FILMCLUB shares great films with kids. Beeban Kidron directed Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason and Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit. She also cofounded FILMCLUB, a charity for students devoted to the art of storytelling through film
Nathaniel Kahn shares clips from his documentary My Architect, about his quest to understand his father, the legendary architect Louis Kahn. It's a film with meaning to anyone who seeks to understand the relationship between art and love. Nathaniel Kahn is an Oscar- and Emmy-nominated maker of documentary films. His journey to understand his distant father -- the legendary modern architect Louis Kahn -- became the film My Architect.
Every act of communication is, in some way, an act of translation. Onstage at TEDxRainier, writer Chris Bliss thinks hard about the way that great comedy can translate deep truths for a mass audience. (Filmed at TEDxRainier.) Chris Bliss explores the inherent challenge of communication, and how comedy opens paths to new perspectives.
At TED2012, filmmaker Karen Bass shares some of the astonishing nature footage she's shot for the BBC and National Geographic -- including brand-new, previously unseen footage of the tube-lipped nectar bat, who feeds in a rather unusual way … Karen Bass has traveled the world to explore and capture footage from every environment across the Earth
Pastor Rick Warren, author of The Purpose-Driven Life, reflects on his own crisis of purpose in the wake of his book's wild success. He explains his belief that God's intention is for each of us to use our talents and influence to do good.Pastor Rick Warren is the author of The Purpose-Driven Life, which has sold more than 30 million copies worldwide. His has become an immensely influential voice seeking to apply the values of his faith to issues such as global poverty, HIV/AIDS and injustice.
Speaking at TED in 1998, Rev. Billy Graham marvels at technology's power to improve lives and change the world -- but says the end of evil, suffering and death will come only after the world accepts Christ. A legendary talk from TED's archives. The Rev. Billy Graham is a religious leader with a worldwide reach. In his long career as an evangelist, he has spoken to millions and been an advisor to US presidents
Julia Sweeney (God Said, Ha!) performs the first 15 minutes of her 2006 solo show Letting Go of God. When two young Mormon missionaries knock on her door one day, it touches off a quest to completely rethink her own beliefs. As a solo performer, comic actor Julia Sweeney explores love, cancer, family and faith. Her latest solo show and CD, Letting Go of God, is about the quest for something I could really believe in -- which turns out to be no God at all
